Torabi Signals Placement
The Torabi Signals Placement was a fun, enlightening and extremely interactive learning experience.
From learning about the heart to coding electrocardiograms (ECGs), learning about different types of noise, algorithms, and much more, it’s a whole new medical sphere which I had never attempted before.
I believe my favourite aspect of the whole placement is simply the amount of things I learned throughout it, there were so many interesting details I learned, which I believe gives me a strong advantage if I ever go for a technology-medical route in my career.
The placement provider was also just as nice as the placement itself, patient and encouraging, Mahdi was a great person and helped me understand everything I needed to as well as taking his own free time in an attempt to further enhance my understanding of it all.
While it might have been a bit overwhelming at times, due to how everything was laid out, it felt smooth most times and allowed me to sequentially learn each topic I needed to, both in order and in a nice, understandable way. 
One thing I wish I could redo about it would be to learn a number of more algorithms and types of noise, while it wouldn’t be entirely necessary for the company Torabi itself, I strongly believe that learning more topics like algorithms would massively further my knowledge into this whole ECG sphere as each algorithm contains a massive number of aspects from noise, noise reduction, mathematics and other good general knowledge.
I learned and used a number of different skills to complete this placement, the most prevalent one being teamwork, this is due to the fact that I had to use other peoples code while communicating with the placement provider to promptly learn and be able to individually develop further on ECG code. Further skills consist of critical thinking, adaptability and a lot of planning, this is as a result of my need to develop on the fly while learning, this caused me to be required to understand certain topics as I was coding them which made me feel much better about my ability to think critically and creatively.
There were a number of times where I needed to remain resilient and professional, through times where I was completing a number of coding notebooks, there were often things I did not understand, in which case I would research using articles, videos, and professionally communicating with the placement provider asking as many things as possible to fully grasp what was required.
However, while my resilience may have been clear, I believe that retrospectively, I could have put a bit more time each day to research further on topics I may have struggled with and possibly have communicated that further to my placement provider.

After redoing my career passport, I can see a number of skills that have clearly and massively improved, which is encouraging to see, the two I believe I’m most proud of is my professional outlook and my resilience, which I strongly believe were both massively boosted from this placement.
I worked almost every day, be that simple research or completing tasks, my resilience was required for such an up taking. I chose to pursue the Python pathway with the placement as opposed to the website development pathway as I’ve always much preferred Python over website development, but also, because the Python backend engineer role sounded much harder, which I loved as the point in taking a placement is to learn. This was one of the most valuable experiences of my life and I am incredibly grateful and happy that I got the opportunity to do this.
This is enhanced by the fact that I was working on one of the most ethical and useful tools possible. ECGs are a highly sensitive topic and required both precision and redundancies as its to treat sensitive people and heart issues, this made me happy that I could work on such a topic. 
The environment I was provided with was a smooth, professional but educational experience, where I had the ability to learn while remaining social, professional and in contact at all times. My role was simple, I was a new student who had to understand the concepts and complete assignments and tasks, while ideally being able to modify ECG-related code, which I was successful at all, but this success relies both on my hard work but as well as Mahdi who was always there to assist me if I needed.
As it was a new environment, new topic and new way of working, there were of course some issues I had, one of which being that I was sometimes a bit behind what Mahdi desired. 
However, he clearly stated he wanted me to pick up speed a bit, and I believe I was effective in my response as I completed all he wanted me to as well as researched the different things he emailed back.
The project was developing an artificial intelligence tool used to help with ECGs, its goal was to accept inputs from external sources and diagnose a number of conditions using API endpoints.
Cardiocare AI (the name of the AI/project), may be an ethical issue for some people as a lot of people nowadays believe that AI takes jobs, and while in some cases this may be true, I was more than happy to help with this project as this project could help save thousands in the future.
Leveraging AI in this way, be it generative or predefined code, can allow for lives to be saved, sooner and much faster.
The process of Cardiocare AI is interactive, streamlined and enlightening, as it goes through a 9-stage process, the customer is able to preview every step of it. This was interesting to me and allowed me to further research more in Python such as HTTP, websockets, and much more.
 
This assignment used generative AI in the following ways for the purposes of completing the assignment: research, planning, feedback.
